2.4 CakePHP Conventions
-----------------------

We are big fans of convention over configuration. While it takes a
bit of time to learn CakePHP’s conventions, you save time in the
long run: by following convention, you get free functionality, and
you free yourself from the maintenance nightmare of tracking config
files. Convention also makes for a very uniform system development,
allowing other developers to jump in and help more easily.

CakePHP’s conventions have been distilled out of years of web
development experience and best practices. While we suggest you use
these conventions while developing with CakePHP, we should mention
that many of these tenets are easily overridden – something that is
especially handy when working with legacy systems.

2.4 CakePHP Conventions
-----------------------

We are big fans of convention over configuration. While it takes a
bit of time to learn CakePHP’s conventions, you save time in the
long run: by following convention, you get free functionality, and
you free yourself from the maintenance nightmare of tracking config
files. Convention also makes for a very uniform system development,
allowing other developers to jump in and help more easily.

CakePHP’s conventions have been distilled out of years of web
development experience and best practices. While we suggest you use
these conventions while developing with CakePHP, we should mention
that many of these tenets are easily overridden – something that is
especially handy when working with legacy systems.
