4.6 Logging
-----------

While CakePHP core Configure Class settings can really help you see
what's happening under the hood, there are certain times that
you'll need to log data to the disk in order to find out what's
going on. In a world that is becoming more dependent on
technologies like SOAP and AJAX, debugging can be rather
difficult.

Logging can also be a way to find out what's been going on in your
application over time. What search terms are being used? What sorts
of errors are my users being shown? How often is a particular query
being executed?

Logging data in CakePHP is easy - the log() function is a part of
the Object class, which is the common ancestor for almost all
CakePHP classes. If the context is a CakePHP class (Model,
Controller, Component... almost anything), you can log your data.
You can also use CakeLog::write() directly.

4.6 Logging
-----------

While CakePHP core Configure Class settings can really help you see
what's happening under the hood, there are certain times that
you'll need to log data to the disk in order to find out what's
going on. In a world that is becoming more dependent on
technologies like SOAP and AJAX, debugging can be rather
difficult.

Logging can also be a way to find out what's been going on in your
application over time. What search terms are being used? What sorts
of errors are my users being shown? How often is a particular query
being executed?

Logging data in CakePHP is easy - the log() function is a part of
the Object class, which is the common ancestor for almost all
CakePHP classes. If the context is a CakePHP class (Model,
Controller, Component... almost anything), you can log your data.
You can also use CakeLog::write() directly.
